Tejas Ambravan (tejasa2)
Josh Placko (jplacko2)
Leo Lin (leolin2)

# CS225 FINAL PROJECT WRITEUP

    For this project, we decide to use the Twitter data from the Stanford page (http://snap.stanford.edu/data/ego-Twitter.html) linked on the CS225 webpage. We implemented a Breadth-first search (BFS) traversal and Dijkstra's algorithm in order to find "degrees of separation" between users in this twitter dataset, as well as a PageRank algorithm to see where users would be ranked based on a transition matrix written between users, clicking on different followers of that user. It should be noted that this is based on a directed graph concept, meaning users can follow (point to) one another and not necessarily be mutual followers, as opposed to a simple link, for example friends on facebook which are always mutual.

    From the BFS and Dijkstras implementation and results, we concluded from random sampling that accounts had 2 to 3 degrees of separation on average. While this number may seem small, it actually makes sense - in a networking site where everyone and everything are interconnected, it is often the case that people are closer together than expected. It is actually said that any two people have on average 6 or fewer degrees of separation https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Six_degrees_of_separation. Note that this link describes social/in person connections, not digital connections which we are investigating.

    From implementation of the PageRank algorithm, we saw that a select few users had a very high probability to get the most views in the long run, meaning after clicking followers of users, over time almost all users congregated on the twitter feeds of a select few accounts. This actually makes sense in practice, as that is essentially the model of Twitter - accounts like ours would have very few views and followers, such as our close friends or family. However, political accounts or celebrity accounts, such as famous actors or the president/white house would gather far more views and followers. We saw that less than 5% of accounts gathered over 95% percent of the viewers and followers.

    Overall, we were able to find and analyze trends of how people connect and interact in the digital world. We found that connections and social media bring people significantly closer by degrees of separation, and we were able to detect and identify the accounts with the most views and influence. As an extension on this project, it would be incredibly interesting to see how this data changes over time, by gaining access to a data set from a different year. We could use this to analyze how connections change, which celebrity accounts are trending up, and how political figures lose support during administrative changes. Additionally, we could extend this project to categorize data - we could see different trends in tech, politics, media, and various other broad and niche groups.
